120 years have passed since the discovery of the first peptide hormone, secretin (SCT), yet very little is known about it. SCT is one of the enteroendocrine hormones, which together regulate the digestion of food and the absorption of nutrients in the digestive system. The "one cell - one hormone" dogma, an ancient classification that assigns one hormone to each type of enteroendocrine cell (EEC), is still used to classify EECs. In this study, we used newly available single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data, which provide unprecedented resolution of cell-cell heterogeneity, to investigate the transcriptomes of individual enteroendocrine cells. To this end, we analyzed the Gut Cell Atlas (GCA), the largest single cell dataset of intestinal cells currently available, using a variety of analysis tools. Our goal was to examine the transcriptional information and determine whether the "one cell - one hormone" dogma is still relevant in the 21st century. We paid special attention to the analysis of SCT expression and its co-expressed genes, which can provide information about the release mechanism. Our study revealed that almost all EECs produce multiple enteroendocrine hormones and that the ratio of hormones expressed defines the cell type. We used the expression of multiple hormones to define hormone co-expression profiles, which provide a new quantitative approach to describe enteroendocrine subpopulations based on the co-expression of multiple hormones in a cell. This study also suggests that SCT is not expressed by S cells, but that its secretion is realized jointly by multiple enteroendocrine subpopulations. These findings have important implications for our understanding of how these hormones are regulated in the body. They suggest that the regulation of these hormones is much more complex than we previously thought, and that multiple factors may be involved in regulating hormone release from these cells. This may explain why it has been so difficult to understand the regulation of hormone release from these cells
